The Gulch is this area right in the
middle of Atlanta, sort of dark, dank,
no-man's-land
under the roadway, an extremely
difficult, intractable place to develop.
>> It's a $5 billion project.
>> is going to transform downtown Atlanta.
>> It was really ambitious. It just looked
complicated.
>> even start to build one thing, you'd
have to invest $800 million.
>> You have to build these massive
structures over active rail lines.
>> Will people, in fact, come to downtown
Atlanta?
Tony and his partners only get that
money if they perform.
>> Atlanta, one of the most dynamic
cultural engines in America.
But as metro Atlanta has boomed, its
original downtown has been left behind,
until now.
>> It's called Centennial Yards. We're
building 6 million square feet. It'll be
a million square feet of retail, 5,000
apartments, half a million square foot
entertainment district.
>> It's opening up just as the World Cup is
coming here.
>> With billions on the line, a global
deadline approaching, and decades of
failure behind it, Centennial Yards is
the biggest gamble Atlanta has made on
its downtown in a generation.
>> I wish we were further along.
>> The clock is already ticking.
>> Tony, here we are, State Farm Arena,
home of the Hawks. What's this all
about?
>> The Atlantic community treats MLK
weekend as something extraordinarily
special.
>> This is the home of Martin Luther King.
>> Tony Ressler bought the Atlanta Hawks in
2015 for $850 million
and hoped to turn a losing franchise
into a winner.
But bringing life back to the old heart
of the city may prove to be an even
bigger challenge.
>> When Martin Luther King came back in
1960, I joined him in '61. We wanted to
establish some kind of new world order
where we could wipe out the diseases and
stigmas of the world that divided us and
build one nation, one city under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice
for all.
>> In the 1960s, Auburn Avenue anchored a
thriving downtown Atlanta.
>> Professional sports teams were turning
Atlanta into their home at the same time
that this place was becoming this sort
of cradle of the civil rights movement.
>> And our Lord make sacred the memory of
Martin Luther King.
>> After the 1960s, white flight and
suburbanization moved power and
investment outward from downtown.
And as Atlanta grew, the center of
gravity started to shift.
>> Right after I got in Congress, we
started building Highway 285, which
circles the city.
>> You started seeing these other skylines
begin to take shape.
>> My generation coming out of college in
the mid-90s, like Atlanta was the place
to be.
>> Atlanta influences everything, whether
it's the hip-hop community or it's Tyler
Perry Studios or Fortune 500 companies
or the Atlanta University Center.
>> By the 1990s, Atlanta was a city with a
growing global footprint. Winning the
1996 Olympic Games was supposed to bring
the world back to downtown.
>> The summer of '96
and being on that Olympic team playing
in the old Georgia Dome, there was a lot
of optimism uh for downtown Atlanta in
terms of what the Olympics was going to
bring. And I know there was
disappointment that it didn't have that
impact that everyone thought it could.
>> When the games ended, downtown failed to
hold on to the Olympic momentum. Its
many notable attractions and
neighborhoods still disconnected from
one another due to the massive 40-acre
swath of abandoned and undeveloped land.
>> When the baseball stadium left downtown,
which happened just as we purchased the
Atlanta Hawks, we had determined then
that we thought downtown Atlanta could
be a really remarkable transformation if
done properly.
>> We had an appreciation that there was
this rather large parcel referred to as
the Gulch. I guess for the prior 100
years, no one had figured out what to do
with it.
>> The junction of railroads that gave
downtown Atlanta its original purpose
left an engineering puzzle that no
developer had been able to solve.
>> You have to build up to get its street
grid. We estimate that costs $400
million. Second is in the hole, there's
no infrastructure. No electricity, no
water, no sewer. Maybe what? Another
$300 million?
>> These railways are still running. Yeah,
this is an active rail line and that's
an active rail line. The Marta line runs
through right there.
>> Does that complicate construction?
>> Extremely. So, everything we build has
to be on stilts essentially 40 ft up to
match that level of the viaducts.
>> When Tony came in, he saw that and he
asked what it is when he was coming in
to do due diligence to buy the team. And
explained to him about the railroad and
viaducts, and he said, "We're going to
build LA Live there." And I'm like,
"Sure you are."
>> Early on, Tony Ressler was made aware of
that if it was a really inclusive
project that underscored the unique
diversity of this city, he stood a
chance to be successful.
>> One of Tony's big partners on this deal
is also his partner in the Atlanta Hawks
and that's the legendary Grant Hill.
>> Been in professional sports my entire
life and to now sort of be a steward of
a franchise in a sense and have this
responsibility, it's important.
>> Grant played a role in helping Tony
assemble this All-Star team of
investors. It's everyone from Arthur
Blank who owns the Falcons to 2 Chainz,
the famous local rapper.
>> The Ressler family to John Bryant to
Usher to Shaq to Ambassador Andrew
Young.
>> Tony Ressler is a people person. There's
nobody that doesn't love him and believe
in him.
>> And then Tony happens to have a brother
named Richard Ressler who's the chairman
and founder of CIM Group.
>> Our friends at CIM, they had successful
developments in Los Angeles, Miami,
Denver that took really large,
complicated downtown developments. For
this to be successful, it wasn't going
to be small.
>> Ressler and the CIM Group would need to
convince the city of Atlanta to
contribute billions of dollars for
Centennial Yards to become a reality.
>> We came together, negotiated a deal.
They said, "We will put in the initial
investment, so no money from the city."
We said we would issue bonds.
>> I have to admit we had support and
opposition.
>> Those who opposed the deal are concerned
about the use of tax dollars and how the
project will affect affordable housing.
>> Affordable housing is probably the
biggest challenge that we have as a
city.
So, when this huge transaction was
before me, I had this whole wish list. I
said I want an affordable housing trust
fund, equity ownership for minority
participation and the list went on.
There was of an in lieu of contribution
that they would have to make if they
didn't hit certain numbers towards
affordable housing and they didn't hit
those numbers and they had to write a
very big check for it. That allowed us
to create this $28 million affordable
housing trust fund. And we got it done.
>> Hooray!
>> A Fulton County judge upheld the city's
issuance of the bonds and Centennial
Yards could finally move forward.
>> We think at the end there's going to be
upwards of 10,000 jobs that are going to
be created. We take on no risk. We put
no initial dollars. And yet together
we're going to build the tax base,
property tax and sales tax.
If they do not generate the taxes,
there's nothing for them to pay
themselves back.
>> Construction began in 2021 and
completion is years away.
But another global deadline is much
closer, the 2026 FIFA World Cup.
>> Damn, I wish we were further along.
We're going to have some things built.
Uh we're going to absolutely be able to
showcase what we're building.
We have about six separate developments
going on simultaneously. Here we're
going to have a 5,300 seat Live Nation
concert hall.
>> Kazem, here's the home of the Hawks,
right? I mean
>> And you're literally across the street
from State Farm Arena. Behind us is
Mercedes-Benz Stadium. Access right
across the street to this entire
establishment.
>> I just think in the world we're in now,
we need to connect. We need to see we
have more in common than not. I see that
all the time in our arena. Having that
downtown, having sports, having
entertainment, all of that. That is so
important. Time for people to come
together.
>> The biggest challenge will be to make
sure that all of our communities get to
be a part of it. That it's not this
place that people are outside the glass
looking in.
>> Tony Ressler, he's like Hank Aaron. Came
here when we needed a winner. Hopefully
it will become the axle around which the
city will spin. We got a vision of the
city of the future.